thomasthiery: Hello!
Akash | ECH: Hey? Am I audible? I guess. Yeah.
Akash | ECH: Hello! Hello!
thomasthiery: How are you?
Akash | ECH: I'm fine. What about you?
thomasthiery: I'm good. I'm good. Thanks.
Akash | ECH: Okay. So today, I'm helping with the live streaming on both platform X as well as Youtube.
thomasthiery: Yeah. Yeah. Pooja also sent me a message. All good. Thanks a lot for being here.
Akash | ECH: Yeah, it's great.
thomasthiery: Hello! Hello!
Mehdi Aouadi: Ion.
Jihoon: Hello!
thomasthiery: I didn't announce this one very well, cause I thought it was gonna be a
thomasthiery: like quick, short ones. We might not be that many. But and that's let's wait for like one or 2 moments, and then maybe start.
thomasthiery: Okay, let's start welcome to breakout fossil breakout number 13.
thomasthiery: Yeah, so, as I said, I mean, last week was interrupt.
thomasthiery: It was pretty crazy, and things are still happening in Berlin. So
thomasthiery: I think this should be like sort of a nice and short and quick one, hopefully and we and there is no like presentation or or anything. I think we can just like discuss things that are like top of mind.
thomasthiery: So yeah.
thomasthiery: what did I? I'm still like, sort of sort of like gathering stuff around for soul, and how it went during the interrupt. I think
thomasthiery: maybe it's some overall comments or well, first, st I think, we had a nice fossil session people like really liked it. And it was sort of like a very packed overview of what's happening around fossil during 1 h. And I think the session was I don't know useful, and so that's cool.
thomasthiery: Then, generally, like everyone I talked to was.
thomasthiery: I don't know it. It really seems like there is like a overall general consensus on fossil being important. I don't know. You can see it across presentations. You can see it when you ask people what they think whether there are researchers or codes. I feel like everyone sort of like is on the same page, and and things fossil like
thomasthiery: is gonna going to be like an important part of the future of the protocol.
thomasthiery: The only thing that's left to determine is like
thomasthiery: the urgency. And that's a bit more viable, like people. Some people think it should be included as soon as possible like, and it's very urgent. Some other people
thomasthiery: think it might be okay if it comes in the protocol a bit later. So that that's really like the sort of like contentious part. But I would say, on its importance, on, on whether it should be included. In the 1st place, is
thomasthiery: looking really good. So that's very nice. I think couple of comments. I think
thomasthiery: some people notice that. We actually might need a niel limit in gas and not just in kilobytes. And that's to make it work with the approvals in the future. Because if you don't limit per gas then, like, basically, you can include
thomasthiery: very worst case is for approvals to deal with via fossil, which isn't like something we want. So we need to think about
thomasthiery: I mean changing the il limit from Kilobytes to gas. I don't think that's a big, big overhaul. To be honest, I think we just need to settle on like a value. Basically, that's not too small. Hopefully, it still covers, like.
thomasthiery: like the all transactions that are usually included in in a block. Today, I think that would be ideal. That was definitely the case with, like the 8 kB limit. So we can see whether it's like 2, 3 million. Yes, I don't. I I'm wondering if you guys also have ideas about like the good size limiting gas that we
thomasthiery: should probably have but I'll keep giving it some some thoughts.
thomasthiery: then good news. I think maybe I'll let Jihoon talk to talk about this, because he also has like insights. And he he was the one telling me a lot about this. So but yeah, both mostly like more clients interested in in implementing fossil, which is always like a very good news and a good sign. So yeah, I'll let maybe Jihoon talk a bit more about this.
thomasthiery: And then the one thing I really wanted to mention is,
thomasthiery: yeah, that we need to focus on tests. I've noticed in a couple of conversations that people are even mentioning, you know, maybe
thomasthiery: eips that are considered for Glamster, then, should have spec tests in included in, in their like devnet, or or or like implementation
thomasthiery: for it to be even considered for inclusion. So I think we might need more of an effort and tests like in the following weeks if possible. So I wanted to check with you guys on that
thomasthiery: And unfortunately, Jacob was looking at the tests on the El side, and he's not gonna be able to continue work on working on this. So yeah, I think someone needs to step up. So I don't know if, like, anyone here is willing to do it it. Also, I mean, you can also like just DM, me, and and we can
thomasthiery: chat about it. If you are ever interested, it will be definitely in collaboration with the steel team. They said. They will be like willing to to help on that front. But yeah, basically on the sales side. I think Jihoon might
thomasthiery: refocus on on tests on this year. But we need someone on the year side. So if anyone is willing to help there. That, we really will.
thomasthiery: And yeah, that was pretty much it.
thomasthiery: Let me know if you have questions about the interrupt or how it went. Generally. But yeah, other than that, I think Johan wanted to talk about a couple of things.
Jihoon: Yeah, thanks for sharing the update. Regarding the El Spec test. I can take it over.
Jihoon: I'm planning to like, I expect I can finish the sales spec test in few weeks, like one or 2 weeks. My major bottleneck was filling up the holes in the spec test. I know. Sorry in the sales pack, and it's done so. I don't think it will take like much time, and I also met Guru from sales team yesterday, so I can take it up
Jihoon: and another feedback that I want to share that we had during the interrupt is that
Jihoon: we might need to shift the freezing deadlines, because over the time we expect to raise gas limit and raising gas limit will increase.
Jihoon: I'm sorry. Raising gas limit
Jihoon: might make local builders run out of time. So we wanna like, for example, currently, we have
Jihoon: 9 seconds deadline for our testers and 11 seconds deadline for builders. But we might wanna move it to like, let's say, 10 seconds instead of 11 seconds to give local builders more time to update their payload.
Jihoon: That's also we wanna think about. And the second, yes, Toba.
thomasthiery: Yeah. Just about your last comment. I think you're completely right. And it's a good good observation. I definitely think it should be included in this.
thomasthiery: Look at different deadlines
thomasthiery: based on like the side of the the size of the block you would have to build for a local proposal, and you can always assume that like, I don't know. Sophisticated builder will be much faster anyways or so. So yeah, I think that's a good comment. But it could be included as a test. Just like as we try to actually, you know, increase the size of blocks that will be
thomasthiery: built by a a local
thomasthiery: builder or proposal we can. We can just test this out and see whether the deadlines hold.
Jihoon: You mean after we? Let's say, if we have both in Amsterdam we wanna decide to whether move the phrasing deadlines after we see how it goes in the real world? Or are you suggesting to run some tests at some at the public dev nest, and to figure out what would be the better phrasing deadlines before we ship possible.
thomasthiery: Yeah. The second one, I think, having an idea of about like whether the deadlines will hold under like
thomasthiery: blocks with higher gas limits would be nice to have before we ship fossil, so we can prepare for what's next, because we are pretty sure, like the gas limit is going to increase. Anyways, I don't think there is like a ton of uncertainty around this, so might as well just like test it before we even ship it. So we don't have to like change the deadlines of fossil
thomasthiery: after like guesstimate increases, or at least it's not like a block blocker for for any scaling things.
Jihoon: Yes, totally so. To summarize it, we wanna
Jihoon: have a good insights on 2 things. One is
Jihoon: phrasing deadlines, and the second thing is what was it?
Jihoon: Oh, Jesus, I forgot.
Jihoon: Could you help? I just forgot what the other thing we wanna test.
thomasthiery: No, I think.
Jihoon: Oh, right! Get get signed.
thomasthiery: Like, based on block site.
Jihoon: Yeah, yeah, guess limit, right? So we wanna figure out those 2 things. Sorry.
Jihoon: And then secondly, regarding the interrupt. So we thanks to ita here we onboarded a lighthouse. So we have 5 clients that work in the interrupt.
Jihoon: and then maybe we can invite that their mind into the interrupt. Mark is also interested in working on that, so we might figure it figure that out in this week or next week, and also. Looking at epf cohort 6 I feel like 3 to 4 people interested in developing fossil and granting and nimbus. So
Jihoon: after like few months. I expect to have like 9 out of 11 clients succeed in interrupt
Jihoon: which is really cool. And then, yeah, I think that's pretty much it, for for my end.
thomasthiery: Nice. Yeah, that's really awesome, I think. Yeah, even talking to some of the interrupt. Some of the teams like didn't start implementing fossil. But we're feeling already quite strongly about wanting to cheer for it for for the next 4. So yeah, I think
thomasthiery: you know, a lot of things are gonna be a bit more clear after the deadline for headliner is is passed, which is like in a month or something. So yeah, it's it's nice to involve more and more clients with.
thomasthiery: I I think we'll all have more clarity exactly on the timelines for
thomasthiery: for everything in in not so long, which is nice.
thomasthiery: Okay. Does anyone else have something they want to share? Or
thomasthiery: I don't know questions about the interrupt. It was pretty packed. It was very dense. But I thought it was nice.
Mehdi Aouadi: I'd like to raise the question about rebasing
Mehdi Aouadi: forces back onto full loop. I don't know what other team thinks about that.
Mehdi Aouadi: because for example, in tech, we have all the furu boilerplate already merging, master, and unfortunately the fossil brand started diverging, and I was thinking maybe we could rebate the faucets back onto Furu.
thomasthiery: Yeah, that's a good question. How do you feel about
thomasthiery: waiting for the headliner or Cfi sort of like decision before before, like rebasing everything on foulu like, or do you think
thomasthiery: it's like quite urgent, and we should do it like sooner.
Mehdi Aouadi: I mean, the sooner we do it the better. But if we're talking like a month or 2, I mean we can leave with that.
Mehdi Aouadi: But my thought
Mehdi Aouadi: we're like, I mean, even if we don't make it to Amsterdam, I guess we won't leave another fork without rebasing. So in the end. Maybe we will.
Mehdi Aouadi: Sooner or later we will end up doing that. So that's what I was thinking.
thomasthiery: Yeah, that totally makes sense. I think so from my perspective. But I mean, like, I think more people should chime in what? I'm
thomasthiery: sort of sensing is a priority right now is trying to make the tests on both the cl and the year, because that could basically be a deciding factor of
thomasthiery: for the for sale inclusion in the next book. So
thomasthiery: yeah, I think I would want to prioritize this overall like a rebasing efforts.
Mehdi Aouadi: Okay.
thomasthiery: Possible, like just for one month, but in one month we'll have like this decision of Cfi or not, and then based on. And then we should re base it in any case, like whether it's Cfi or not. But
Mehdi Aouadi: Yeah.
thomasthiery: But you know, it would be. It would be like an effort that we will need to do anyways.
Mehdi Aouadi: Yeah, sure, that sounds reasonable. Yeah, why not?
thomasthiery: Okay, awesome.
thomasthiery: Does it sound good with everyone else?
Jihoon: I think when we wanna consider repacing fossil onto follow. Another point that we wanna consider is that we wanna check like, if period is stabilized enough, because, as far as I remember, we avoided it.
Jihoon: repaising a fossil onto Pollu as pure depth was unstable back in the days I wasn't following a periodic development. So I'm not sure if it's stabilized enough. But if it's not stabilized enough yet that we wanna waste too much more because, like, it might be a hassle to, just, you know, making fossil work on top of like unstable, pure debt if it is unstable. So yeah.
thomasthiery: Right? Yeah, that's a good point. So okay, so then let's say, for sure, let's not touch it for one month, and in one month. Let's reevaluate. And by that time I'll definitely try to find out if it's all stable, or if it's like changing a ton. I agree like, if it's just like minor changes, I think it's fine, and we can probably live with it, because in a case like it's actually diverging, and we will need to do it anyways. But yeah, that's definitely a good point. To think about when we
thomasthiery: talk about it in a in a month. Great any other questions.
thomasthiery: So yeah, with Jihoon. We sat down with Katya at some point and looked at the Cl. And El. Metrics for full soon, which I think was nice and would be very useful.
thomasthiery: And
thomasthiery: yeah, there was also like a comment, by the account abstraction team. I'll probably just write it down before I talk about it. But
thomasthiery: yeah, you know, like as a builder, let's say, solo builder.
thomasthiery: When you build a block, you have to like check. If transactions that were not included in the block are valid or not to determine whether you know the block satisfied the ir conditions or not.
thomasthiery: And yeah, doing it that way, you know, can lead to some like worst cases in terms of computation time for local builders. Which you know, I don't think it's like the end of the world, but like should still be probably considered. And so
thomasthiery: an idea would be to ask
thomasthiery: the builder, whether it's like a local builder or an out of local builder to include a sort of like Il
thomasthiery: hint list to indicate where that the transaction.
thomasthiery: was executed in the block. Or like the attempt. The attempt of execution was in in the block. So
thomasthiery: so yeah. So the the builder doesn't have to like sort of like.
thomasthiery: try a lot of different combinations for for
thomasthiery: for including like including il transactions in in its payload. In the 1st place.
thomasthiery: I think that's definitely something we will need in any case in the future. I've started to think quite a lot about like how fossil fits with Zkvms and statelessness. And I think this sort of Il hint or il sidecar thing will need to
thomasthiery: like exist in the future, anyway. So we might as well. But yeah, that's just like the rough idea. I will try to write something. So people can also just like, look at the doc and see how it would affect fossil. And and we make a decision based on it. But it's not a big, big deal. It's just like a helper, basically to avoid like having to append. Il transactions to the end of the payload.
thomasthiery: So yeah, just wanted to mention it here? But I will definitely write something about it.
thomasthiery: Does anyone else have other questions?
thomasthiery: Okay? If not, we can probably wrap this up. It was a very short one, but that was expected. Given the the interrupt last week. And we'll go back to a more like normal, I think. Schedule
thomasthiery: starting in in 2 weeks with like more presentations and sort of like, more content to to go on.
thomasthiery: In the meantime. Exactly. In the meantime. Yeah, thanks all for for coming and
thomasthiery: and see you next time.
Katya Riazantseva: Thank you. Bye.
Mehdi Aouadi: Thank you, very.